Remote Server Wake-up and Shutdown
===================================

Problem Statement:
All my files are stored in a server that runs [ZFS] (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ZFS),
the problem is most of my development is done at my laptop. A lazy guy I am, I find the need to 
turn on both machines a bit boring and time-consuming. I spent a weekend to investigate how 
I could remotely turn on/off the machine from my laptop, and this project is the result
of my investigation.

Terminology:
* The server of which you want to remotely administrate is aptly called 'server'
* The device from which you will administrate the server will be called 'client'

Assumptions:
* Both of your server and client has a running copy of python. My version is 2.6.6, but all recent versions should
be fine.
* Your server motherboard supports wake-on-lan and this feature is enabled.
* My laptop is a mac while the server is running FreeBSD 8.2. However the instructions and scripts
will be able to run on most *nix or even Windows machines with minimal modifications.

Steps:
1. First clone the github project and you shall get 2 folders: 'client' and 'server'
2. The client folder consists of two files: 'wakeserver.py' and 'shutserver.py'. You will need
to modify 'wakeserver.py' and replace the MAC address inside with MAC address of your server. 
For 'shutserver.py' you will need to replace the server IP address with your own server IP.
3. The server folder consists of an 'rc.d' folder and two files. Inside the 'rc.d' folder is
the BSD style startup script for the daemon. You will need to modify the shutserverd script to
point the 'command' to your shutserverd.py file location.
4. The two files in the server folder are: pyDaemon.py and shutserverd.py. You will need to modify
the shutserverd.py file to make sure the IP of the server is correct.

IMPORTANT:
==========
1. The scripts are assuming python is at /usr/local/bin. This is true for my machine, please
verify its location at your end.
2. The wake-on-lan only works when the system is in soft-shutdown. In other words, if your system
had its main switch turned off, it won't be able to wake up from network activity.

